First entry in the diary!
We are a group of three happy people.

In our first meeting together we've made sure all group members have a github account. That alone proved to be a challenge.

With github in place, we've prepared directories for reflections, containers and planning according to the specifics of the assignment.
We've also made directories for the database and server that we will need later.

We've made out first commits and everything seems to be working.

The git commands used are:

git clone - making a clone of the branch.
git commit - commit changes to the branch you´re working in. It's important to describe the commit as it is part of the examination, something we're implementing in the group from start.
git add - add changes
git switch - switch branch
git fetch - updates remote tracking branches
git merge - merge branches
git pull - combines git fetch and git merge to update the local branch with changes
git push - upload local repository content to remote repository.

Our aim is to keep a main branch without faults, alas the maintenance branch! This is where we vill make all changes and make sure everything is working before merging it with the main branch. 
We're also planning on not working in the same file at the same time to avoid conflicts.

The difficulties I've encountered so far is using the git commands in the right way and felling comfortable in the environment we're working with. It's the first time I've used github, but I think I'm
getting the hang of it now. I just need to remember to git pull after git fetch! A mistake I've made, and won't make again.

As we're just in the beginning of the process there are parts of the assignment that I'm not sure how to solve yet. I'm not yet comfortable with using containers and databases so that might prove a challenge.

___
We have set up burger orderer with a little help from the github directory Mikael shared. We've gone through the code trying to figure out what all parts are doing.
We installed podman to make our containers.
Used exercise 8 to understand containers and images and read about containers and images.
___
Today we set up all the files and also a first attempt at the burger orderer.
We Tested burger orderer on localhost, and it worked! We have a simple frontpage showing the available burgers.

___
Today we managed to get the front page of both kitchen view and burger orderer to work. We are showing all available burgers and which ingredients they contain.
We have started with a get form that allows you to click which burger you want to buy. We still have to get the REST API so the connection still isn't working. But you can 
see in the terminal that burger_orderer tries to send to kitchen view.
We have started working on the database.

A problem at the moment is how the alterations of the burgers is supposed to work. How are we going to show the available ingredients and add och remove items? That's something we'll 
have to think about a bit more.

Another problem om mine is that the commits i made yesterday are gone since I forgot to push them. A mistake I won't make again.
___


