Assignment 1:
<<<<Summarize and Reflect>>>>

Names of everyone on the team:

Seyed Mostafa Mohseni
Signe Nilsson
Eidam Holgaard



Link to the project page on the git server:

https://github.com/SigneNilsson/PA1489_BurgerOrderer.git


Brief summary of what configuration management is and why
used:

Configuration management means systematically managing and documenting all components and their relationships within a system. This includes keeping track of changes, versions and status of each component.
Configuration management makes it possible to track all changes made to the system, contributes to the system's structure and status, and by continuously documenting the configuration of the system, we ensure that the system works as expected and that all components are compatible with each other.


-Brief summary about the most common workflow with git, including those
git commands used;
The most common workflow with git starts with cloning a repository, creating a new branch, creating files, making changes, saving the changes, adding the changes, commiting the changes and sending the changes, downloading and uploading them and merging with the current branch.

git clone      - repository
git switch     - new branch
git branch     - checks current branch
git add        - new file
git commit     - saves made changes
git fetch      - fetches others changes
git push       - sends your changes
git merge      - merge branches
git pull       - pulls others changes 


Our experience working with configuration management:

-What went well?
Our plan was to use a maintenance branch, and only merge code that was working as we wanted with main. That would make us able to make changes in the maintenance branch 
without ruining the code that we knew worked well. We all have different starting points using git, we all have different views on what went well:
Mostafa= It was easy to create the github account, repository and create files.
Signe- As I did not know how to use git before this project I think it went well using the commands in the end. It was a bit confusing in the beginning and I had to check 
the list of git commands I used in my engineers journal everytime I made a commit. I didn't know it was possible to use git through vscode, but its also I simple way to do it.
Now, as the project is at it's finishline I feel comfortable using git and the commands. 

-What went less well?
In general the configuration management went well when we all had it set up.
One thing that can be difficult is when you get merge conflicts. We quickly got in the habit of pulling, committing and pushing often, and 
communicated which files we worked in as to not get conflicts.
Mostafa= It was a bit difficult to clone the repository, create a pull request and merge to the branch.


-How did you solve the difficulties? Could you have done differently?
As mentioned above, we did only have a few conflicts, and when that merge conflict happened we went through it and took it step by step 
as to see what to keep and what to discard.
Mostafa= We got help from each other and the exercises.

-What did you not manage to solve? Why not
We did not have any issues regarding configuration management that we could not solve. We decided on using a maintenance branch early on and stuck with it. 
Merging only perfectly working code to main.