Assignment 2:
<<<Implementation and Documentation<<<

Names of everyone on the team:


Eidam Holgaard
Signe Nilsson
Seyed Mostafa Mohseni

Link to the project page on the git server:


https://github.com/SigneNilsson/PA1489_BurgerOrderer.git

-Brief summary of what you have implemented:

In our project we have implemented various techniques such as docker, python flask and sql to get our burger ordering website up and running, we used docker to make the burger ordering website, kitchenview website and the database to all run and be able to communicate with each other. We made use of python as language in our project and python flask as our means of webdevelopment, we should python flask and python because it was the language our group had used the most so we decided to make use of that strength instead of learning a new language. We also used sql to get a database including all the data of the burgers to working order, although we didn't have enough time to implement it into our code.

We have decided our product types, development environment, use Flask we have updated burger_order , kitchenview and menustore, created containers, installed necessary tools for the program.
chosen language and other technologies to be used. started to get kitcehnview and burger orders up and running without a database
got database up and running, got database working in container and got kitchenview and burger orders working in container.


what you did and how you thought about it:

The thing that went well ni our project is that we all are eager to learn. As we all have different starting points when it comes to programming (one has experience and 
the other two has not) it was hard to make a plan in the beginning. As we did not know what would be difficult and how much time each part would take. Initially the plan was to 
work on different parts of the project, but as we got started we soon realized we had to be more flexible in our approach. As the many concepts of the assignments were starting 
to make sense to us beginners, we started working on the parts that we did know what to do something with at the moment, communicating our work with each other.

We did not get the containers up and running until late in the project, thats why we did not have time to make it all work as we wanted. We did not make it into modules which 
we know makes our code hard to read and test. It's all down to lack of time really. In each container for the kitchen view and the burger orderer 
we have app.py, which is the program.
• The project in general
• Each container
• Each module



-Your experiences about how the project was implemented.
• What went well?
What went well is that we all contributed as best as we could, and learned a lot along the way. We have all components for a working project,
but did not manage to put it all together before the assignment was due. I think all the important parts are there and working.

• What went less well?
What didn't go as planned was that we ended up with an app that does not use the database. Another issue is that we don't 
have any data in the database. We have the code to create it, but have not had time to use it, which I think we could solve. Another issue 
is that we did not manage to attain the data from the database when we tested it locally. We used hard coded burgers when creating the apps and 
that is still the case in our current version. Although I think we are close if we can just use the connect mysql module to attain the data from the 
database and change the format of it so we can use it the same way as our static burgers.

• How did you solve the difficulties? Could you have done differently?
Sadly we didn't solve the database issue and we could have put more time into the project as well as planned our approach better, since none of us had a good understanding of how the project should have been approached we did the best of what we knew and realized quickly that we needed a more flexible approach to finalize the project with everything that was asked for. We will be ready for the next group projects with more experience and a generally better approach. 

• What did you not manage to solve? Why not?
As stated above we didn't manage to finalize the working database and make use of the data we were going to put in there, and then implement it into our project because we didn't have enough time and we didn't plan our approach and prioritize aspects of the project as we should have. In the beginning we didn't know what aspects of the project should have been the main priority but now after the project we have gained the knowledge and experience to know what kind of approach we should have taken.




-Your experiences of working with containers.
• What went well?
As we finally understood how easy it was to use docker-compose, it all worked well with building and running the containers.

• What went less well?
A lot of time was spent creating a container for the database using a script without docker compose, before we understood the 
magic of the docker compose file and how to run it.

• How did you solve the difficulties? Could you have done differently?
We genuinely think that the difficulties we met as it came to not knowing how to create containers and using docker-compose was because 
plan was to get the apps working before putting them in containers. As we are new there where so many different concepts to dig into that 
it was not easy to manage it all in the time we had.

• What did you not manage to solve? Why not?
We did not manage to solve creating data in the database. We have a script for it (manuStore.sql) that we have tested and know work for creating the data we want, 
and we  do have a container with adminer to administrate the database, so we're really close! Again, the time was short in 
the end, and we hope ypu can see that we have all components in place, even if it's not all finished when it comes to creating the data inside
the container and managing to retrieve it.

